Login.jsp – Java Server Page

Get is the simplest, but the worst one as the username and password are published in the url – perfect for hackers.
Post instead of Get fixes this issue.

protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)

request scope:

Server (Java Code)        Client(Web Page)
Request comes in and response goes back. You are then forgotten.

Session scope:

Server (Java Code)        Client(Web Page)
                
					SessionID
Request comes in and response goes back. You will be remembered.


Commercial World – There can be thousands of servers running at the same time.

HTTP is Stateless – doesn’t remember what happened once request has been served with a response.

Importance of Session Attribute.
Name of User – can explore using the UserDAO. Keep it small, but useful enough to get more info from dataset if needed.

This file contains some brief instructions on various tasks for this week:

- downloading tomcat web server
- listing the servers you have available
- adding a new server
- Starting a server
- Running a web application
- changing the port number on a server


- viewing data connections
- converting a project to JPA


1. Download Tomcat.

Download Tomcat from this location:
Tomcat: https://tomcat.apache.org/download-80.cgi#8.5.51

Unzip it to a convenient location, e.g the Desktop.


2. List the Servers available:

Click Windows-> Show View-> Other
Type Server and "Servers" will be shown. Again you only need one.

3. Create a new Web server

Make sure you have downloaded Tomcat and unzipped it!!!!(step 2 above)

The first time you list your servers(step 3), the list of servers shows no servers: there will be a link that says "no servers..."
Click this link
A window appears.
Expand the Apache section and select Apache 8.5
Press Add
A window called "New Server environment window" is displayed

a. The Name window will remain.
b. The Tomcat installation directory is blank.
Click Browse and locate the folder where you unzipped the Tomcat file. Make sure you browse to the directory which contains the .exe files
When you have run step b and selected the installation folder you will never have to do that again
c. For the JRE, select the other option(that is, NOT Workbench Default JRE)
Press Finish


4. Starting a server

To run a web application you must make sure ONE server is running.
In the list of web servers(step 3), choose the server you want to run, right click and choose "Start Server"
When it displays "Server Started" it has started successfully.

5. Running a web application

You can now run the application by right clicking on the application and clicking Run-> Run on Server
It will display the servers available.
Choose the server you want and press Finish


6. Changing the port number

We will all use the same port number, 8088

To change the port number go to the Servers tab(step 3 above)
Double click on the server
In the properties change the port for HTTP/1.1 to 8088
DO NOT CHANGE the Admin port. Leave it as 8005!!!
Press CTRL+S to save the new port number and restart the server


JPA

1. viewing data connections in Eclipse

Click Windows-> Show View-> Other
Type Data and "Data Source Explorer" will be shown. Select this and press Ok.
Your data connections will be shown.
If you need to check if one is working(you only need one) then right click on it and press "ping"


2. Converting a project to JPA

Right click on the project and click Properties
Click on Project Facets->Convert to Faceted Form
Click on JPA, 2.1
Click Further configuration available
Under platform click Eclipselink 2.5
Under type click "Disable Library configuration"
Under Connection select the connection you set up previously in Data access week
Click the link called "Connect"
Press Ok
Locate the persistence.xml file under "JPA Context"
Click the "Connection" tab, the 2nd tab
For transaction type, select Resource Local
Click the link "Populate from connection"
Select the connection which displays
Press CTRL+S to save the changes
Now we will add the entities.....
Click on the General tab, the 1st tab. Click Add. Add one of your entities. Repeat this for each entity class. DO not add the DAO classes.
Press CTRL+S to save the changes.
Click the source tab, the 8th tab just to check the connection details and entities. Its best not to change code in this tab but its useful to check things.



